Anthropic just shipped Claude channels,
and it means you can text Claude
directly from Telegram on your phone and
get real work done on your machine. And
it even remembers everything across your
sessions. If you've been using open
Claude, mold bot, Claude bot, whatever
you want to call it, you don't need to
anymore. In this video, I'm going to
show you my exact setup, the
step-by-step guide to getting this
working on your machine, and I'm even
going to share with you my exact
Claude.md file that makes the whole
experience from Telegram so much better.
Let's get into it. Cool. So, let me give
you a quick demo of the channels
feature. So, on the left-hand side of my
screen, I have Claude Code open up in VS
Code Studio just in the terminal, and
then on the right-hand side, I have an
iPhone emulator app that lets me open
Telegram on my Mac so we can have
everything on the same page, and it's
all nice and easy to follow. So, I'm
chatting with in Telegram a Claude bot
that I have created, and that Claude bot
is paired with this local session of
Claude Code in my terminal. So, you can
see that at the top of the page where it
says the Telegram plugin's official. So,
it's all linked up together. So, anytime
I message Claude from Telegram, it will
message this particular terminal on my
machine and start to do actions. So, I
can test with
Hey, and then you can see that the
Telegram message comes across here.
Claude does its thinking and then will
reply using the Telegram MCP tool
straight back into my Telegram. You can
even see it comes up with the typing and
red marks. You can even react to my
message if I ask it to. It sometimes
does that with longer requests. So, I
have Claude open up in my SEO folder,
which is where I do my weekly SEO
workflow. It finds opportunities for me,
and then from there, I create briefs,
articles, and then publish them out onto
the website all automatically. So, I
wanted to see if I could access that
from Telegram, so then potentially I
could do this on the go rather than
having to do it from my machine. So, I'm
going to ask it for today's SEO
opportunities, which already ran this
morning. So, you can see that message
comes across pretty much straight away,
and then Claude goes to work. It's
reading all of the files in my repo, and
then it should send back all of the
files that I want. So, it has come back
to me, and I can see that it's given me
all of the opportunities, and it's come
back in text, uh which for this
particular purpose isn't what I wanted
it to do. I want it to come back and
send me the file. So, this is another
good demo of a new feature that Claude
recently dropped, uh which is auto
memory. Auto memory allows Claude to
store memories about you, your
preferences, the project it's currently
working on within a memory.md file
that's saved against the project. So, it
can remember things about you as the
user, and then it can also remember
things about the particular project that
you're working on. So, I'm going to say,
"Remember
report directly."
So, I'm going to ask it to remember
that, and it's really, really speedy
this connection between Telegram and
Claude. You can see it comes across
super, super quick. Uh so, it's actually
recalling its memories at the moment,
and then it's writing a new memory. Uh
so, the next time I ask for my
opportunities, it's just going to send
me the HTML report back. It's saying
that it doesn't have today's report, but
it does.
So, I'm just going to ask it for it.
There you go. So, it's just attached the
files and sent it across to me. The
Telegram integration can support up to
50 MB files, and it can send any type of
file that Telegram can support. So, it's
super cool. Can send zip files back to
you, PDFs, whatever you're getting
Claude to work on on your machine.
Uh so, now that I have this daily
opportunities report,
I can see, you know, everything that I
would want to see from that report. Uh
and then I can actually ask it to
schedule things as well. So, that's
another feature from open Claude which
Claude has which Anthropic have recently
developed, and that's scheduling. So,
there's a couple of different types of
scheduled tasks.
Uh I'm just going to use the Claude Code
native scheduled task, which is the loop
command. So, remind me later tonight at
8:00 p.m. to write the article.
So, sending that message across to
Claude will kick it off to create a cron
job, which is pretty much just a
scheduled job running in this terminal
on my machine. You can see it's used the
cron create tool, and it has created a
tool and it's created a job to send a
message to me at 8:00 p.m. So, I'll get
a notification on my phone from Claude
saying, "Hey, remember to write that
article." So, all three of those
features, the Telegram connection, the
scheduling, and the memory give me
everything that I need to replace open
Claude. So, let me show you exactly how
I've done that for my personal workflow.
If you don't know me, my name is Brad.
I'm a go-to-market engineer, and I'm
building with Claude every single day.
If you want to see more of that,
subscribe to the channel and check out
the links below. Before we get into the
technical setup, I just want to take 60
seconds to unpack open Claude so you can
understand the core functionality, and
then once we understand it, the
replacement becomes super obvious. Over
the last few months, Claude bot, open
Claude, whatever you want to call it,
has been everywhere. It has been one of
the most shared GitHub repos ever, I
think. It's got more GitHub It's got
more stars than N8N, faster than N8N,
and there's just been thousands and
thousands of posts about this product.
Some of them have been sponsored, some
of them are not, and it's really hard to
separate the hype from what the actual
value of open Claude is. But when it
boils down to it, open Claude is three
things. The first one is a interaction
with an AI agent through Telegram,
WhatsApp, a messaging service, the same
way that you would talk to any other
human being in your life. And two, uh
scheduled tasks or cron jobs. So, giving
the AI agent an ability to go and act on
things without you having to go and
prompt it directly. Three is persistent
memory. So, it's learning across your
sessions, gathering your context, and
getting an understanding for how you
operate, what it's working on, and just
improving over time. The demand for
those three core features was
incredible. People genuinely wanted an
agent that they could just text from
their phone like they would anywhere
else and have it do actual real work for
them. But for a lot of people, open
Claude was really rough around the
edges. You don't have to repeat the
horror stories of people exposing ports
on their machine, getting their API keys
exposed. There is a lot of risk when it
comes to setting up one of these open
source projects, especially if you don't
know what you're doing, which most of
the people that were setting it up
didn't know what they were doing. Uh
they could be some really bad things
happen. Open Claude also has the ability
to go off the rails. It can, you know,
delete entire folders. The other thing
that was hard to manage was the hype
from reality because a lot of the hype
around open Claude was artificial. There
were sponsored posts from the VPS
companies who were paying thousands of
dollars for creators to create how-to
set up videos. And then there were
people selling installs for open Claude,
which just added into the hype for the
product. Plus the organic creators that
were jumping on the bandwagon just to
get some views and clicks. The whole
open Claude saga did anything, it made
it abundantly clear that people want the
ability to text an AI agent in the same
way they text anyone else, and they want
that agent to do things for them, not
just respond. They want actual real
outputs from the AI. So, Anthropic's has
clearly seen that over the last three or
four weeks, they've been quietly
shipping features that have been eating
away at each of the three core
functionalities that I just laid out for
you. They've released scheduled tasks
through co-work and Claude Code. They've
released auto memory, which got
absolutely no hype, and I haven't seen
really anyone talking about it, but it's
one of the most exciting features for
Claude Code that have come out. And then
just recently, they've released
channels, which lets you connect Claude
to Telegram and Discord at the moment.
There's probably more coming, and all of
that is native within Claude Code. So,
let me walk you through setting up each
one. Channels is the feature that
directly competes with open Claude and
lets you text Claude from Discord or
Telegram. Those are the only ones that
are supported at the moment, but there
are more on the way. So, let's set that
up right now. I have created this very
comprehensive guide for setting up
everything that we're about to talk to
for the rest of the video. It includes
all of the setup instructions and my
Claude.md file, which I will show you a
little bit later on. You can get it at
the link in the description below. So,
all we're going to do is follow along
with these instructions and get
everything set up. So, the first thing
that we need to do is go to Telegram.
So, I have Telegram downloaded on my
Mac, so I'm just going to open it up
here. If you're doing this on your
iPhone, it's the exact same, um or any
Telegram app. So, we just need to go
find the BotFather, which if you swipe
down and search for BotFather, it'll
come up as a someone you can message,
and press start. This is a bot that lets
you manage the bot's API within
Telegram. So, you just want to hit
start, and then from there, it will give
you a bunch of different commands. What
we want to run is new bot. So, just hit
that top one, and it'll send the /newbot
command. So, now it's asking me to set a
username for my Claude bot, so I'm going
to give it something easy like demo
Claude channels
baby
bot. The important thing is it has to
end in _bot, so I'm just going to hit
that
and see if it likes it. And it does. So,
now it's replied with a link to go and
chat to this bot as well as the access
token. So, this is your API token that
lets you connect into this bot, and it's
very important that you keep it secret.
It's pretty much like a password that
gives you access to the bot. So, I'm
going to go delete this after I record
this video, but for right now, I'm just
going to copy it. Cool. So, now that I
have my bot created in Telegram, we need
to go to Claude Code to connect Claude
Code, my Claude Code account, with the
bot. So, I'm going to do that by going
into a terminal, which I have open here,
and just type Claude to open up Claude
Code. The first thing we need to do is
install the Telegram plugin, which will
bring all of the files that we need in
order to connect onto our machine. So,
I'm just going to go over here and copy
and paste this command, and that will
prompt me to install the Telegram
plugin. So, it's asking me a few
questions where I want to install the
plugin. So, there's a few options:
install for me on a user scope, install
in the project scope, install in local
scope, or back to the plugin list. So,
I'm going to select install for me
because I want to access this Telegram
plugin across all of my projects on my
user account. If I only wanted to access
it from this repo, I would hit local
scope, and if I wanted every
collaborator in this repo to have
access, I would hit project scope. But
for me, I'm just going to go user scope.
Cool. Now, it's asking me to run the
/reload plugins command to activate the
plugin.
For me, that off pretty much doesn't
work ever. So, I'm just going to go to a
new terminal and reload everything that
way, but you're more than welcome to try
it. From there, the next step is to
configure our Telegram token. So, I'm
going to copy this and then I'm going to
paste in our Telegram API key. From
there, Claude will go and create the
Telegram uh directory within our
channels folder and will create our
env and save our API key there.
Oops. It's just messed up my screen, but
it's just go ahead and save that for me.
And now it's locking down the
permissions. Great. So, now it has the
token. The next thing we need to do is
restart Claude again, but with the
channels flag. So, that way Claude is
listening for messages from Telegram.
So, I'm going to create a new Claude
and just paste this command
to start it up. You'll know it's
listening if it has this big red
listening from channel messages for
Telegram message. Okay. So, the next
thing we need to do is go to our bot
back in Telegram now and message our bot
anything. So, I'm going to click the
Telegram link here and that'll take me
straight to my Claude bot and I can
start. So, I'm going to ask it anything.
Hey.
And then that will reply straight back
with an access pair code. So, I just
need to copy and paste this command
that Claude's given me and then give
that to Claude here. What this is doing
is pairing my Claude instance with the
Telegram bot so then only I can access
it. So, only my Telegram user account
can access Claude code. So, it's just
going to create an access
file and add my ID there. And it's added
me as an approved sender. Cool. And it
says I should get receive a confirmation
in Telegram. And it says pay it say hi
to Claude. So, we are all set up for the
channels. I can now talk to Claude and
ask it to say hello.
Hello.
And you can see that the message is
being received in my Claude code and the
Claude will reply. Can I ask me for
permissions? So, that's the important
thing to remember for when we're
restarting Claude. Cool. So, Telegram is
all connected. I'm not going to go
through the Discord setup instructions,
but they're all here. So, just follow
along with the instructions for Discord
and you can pair everything up. So, the
one thing that we just ran into with
Claude was that it asked me for
permissions to reply. Now, if we want a
truly autonomous bot that we can chat to
via Telegram, we don't want to be
running into access permissions every
time we message something every time it
needs to read a file. So, that's why we
need to run Claude with the dangerously
skip permissions. The next time I create
my channel or create my Claude instance,
just going to exit out these two. Create
a new terminal.
I'm going to run it with this Claude
dangerously skip permissions channels.
Let me get the whole command. That might
help.
Cool. And now it has this bypass
permissions on flag, which means that
Claude will not ask my permission to do
anything on my machine. Don't worry. My
Claude  md adds some guardrails
around this and gives it some
instructions as to not to delete files
ever. That's obviously not 100%
bulletproof, but it does go a long way
to preventing Claude from going totally
AWOL. The other thing to note here is
that Claude will only respond to your
messages as long as your machine is on
and awake. So, I usually recommend that
you would get a separate machine to
install something like this on. So, if
you have an old laptop laying around or
a Mac mini or something like that, then
you can set up Claude on that machine.
You'll need to go in and change the
settings on your Mac so it never sleeps.
So,
uh you can do that in Mac here by going
to system settings. I'm just going to
search to sleep. Cool. So, you want to
get to your system settings and then go
to lock screen on Mac and it's these two
settings here. So, turn display off on
battery inactive and you want to switch
that to never
and then turn display off on power
adapter when inactive and you want to
switch that to never as well. That will
stop your Mac from sleeping ever and
make sure that Claude is always able to
respond to you via Telegram. Now that we
have channels configured, we're going to
move on to the next two features, which
are what make Claude code a real
competitor to OpenClaude at the moment.
Quick thing. If you want
production-ready skills that you can
actually use in your business, then I'm
launching a enterprise-grade skills
marketplace where every skill is vetted
by a real expert in their field. No
vibe-coded slop. If you want access, the
waitlist is in the link in the
description below. Plus, by signing up,
you'll also get access to the full setup
guide, which I'm about to walk you
through, and you'll get access to my
Claude  md that really levels up
the experience of using Telegram and
Claude. These last two features are
built into Claude code and require very
little setup at all. In fact, no setup.
So, the first one of these is what takes
Claude code from something that responds
when you prompt it to something that can
actually go out and do work for you
while you're sleeping. And that's the
concept of a scheduled task or a cron
job. So, a cron job or a scheduled task
is something is a command that we can
give Claude to go at a certain time and
action a command. You can do that in
Claude code by using the  loop
command and that will give you a bit of
an idea of how you can schedule these
tasks. But at a high level, there are
two types of loops that you can set.
Reminders or ongoing loops. A reminder
is something like remind me at 3:00 p.m.
to reply to Scott or one-off tasks where
you want Claude to actively reach out to
you via Telegram to remind you to do
something. The other option are
repeatable loops and those are loops
that you want to set up every interval.
So, every couple of minutes, every hour,
every day. The maximum you can go up to
is one day. So, I can set up a loop to
go run find opportunities in my SEO
plugin every single day and message that
me in Claude code. I can do that via
Telegram. So, I've asked Claude to set
up a scheduled job for me. So, every day
at 8:00 a.m., I want it to start to run
the find opportunities command within
the SEO plugin, which goes out and finds
all the best SEO opportunities for me
today. I then want it to message me in
Telegram the best opportunities. So,
that's going to kick off the cron create
tool in Claude code on my machine and
set up the cron job. So, that cron job
will run every day at 8:00 a.m. my time
and it will auto-expire after 7 days. 7
days is the maximum amount of time that
you can set up these loops for at the
moment. If you need loops that persist
longer than 7 days, there are options.
You can do that within Claude desktop
using co-work or you can use Claude code
in the cloud. So, that's via the web app
for Claude code and then you can have
absolute scheduling freedom uh
all the way for eternity if you wanted
to. There are a couple of caveats to
commands running locally in Claude code.
One of them is that the maximum time
they can expire is 7 days. The second is
that if I close my laptop or I close
this terminal, then the cron job will be
deleted and it will no longer run. So,
schedulers give Claude code a heartbeat,
but the real unlock is is this next
feature, which is memory. I've seen
barely any coverage for auto memory and
it's one of the most impactful features
that Claude and the Anthropic team have
released in recent past. It lets you
store memory files against every project
that you're working on in Claude code.
So, Claude's actively learning and
getting better as time goes on. And all
of those files are completely local on
your machine. It even has general memory
about you. So, it's not just learning
about your particular projects, it's
learning about you, your preferences,
and your life. This is what gives Claude
code as an OpenClaude replacement the
real unlock. It gives it the ability to
learn over time and get better and grow
into its role. Memory is super easy to
use because you don't even have to
invoke it. If you just tell Claude to
remember something,
remember that
I am in daylight saving time.
Claude will automatically call the auto
memory tool and save that in your
project memory and against your user
memory. So, you can see it's received
the message and then the writing one
memory tool has been called. And the
second memory is writing it to my user
scopes. From there, it's going to reply
back to me in Telegram and says noted
that you're on daylight saving time. The
cron job runs off the system clock on
the machine. That's how the memory
functionality works. Now, the real
unlock and how you get Claude code to
work as an OpenClaude replacement is by
including instructions to use auto
memory inside your Claude  md
folder. So, if you don't know what a
Claude  md is, those are
instructions that you drop into the root
of your repo, which I'll show you here,
your Claude  md. And these are
instructions that are always loaded into
Claude's context when you're speaking to
it in this repo. So, what I've done for
you inside that document linked in the
description below is a custom Claude
md specifically designed to work
with Telegram channels to make the
experience so much better. You can see
it in action with how we've been using
it today. It's prioritizing shorter
messages designed for use on mobile.
It's confirming things before it going
off and doing it so it doesn't just
leave you on read for hours. And it's
also being prompted to run auto memory
before it does anything. So, I'll run
you through it now. So, all you need to
do is paste these lines into the bottom
of your existing Claude  md and
you'll be able to get a 10x increase in
how you're using channels with Claude
code. So, there are a couple
instructions that go into work. It's
always going to confirm a new task
before starting work. It's always
breaking complex requests into phases
and reporting on progress. That way you
don't get left on read for long periods
of time when you when working from
Telegram and you always have an idea of
where is Claude is up to. On completion
of a task, it's going to summarize
what's changed, tell you what was
created, and a one-line overview of
exactly what it did. And if an error
persists after three attempts, it will
stop and report the full context. That's
extra important when you're running
Claude on dangerously skip permissions
using something like web scrapers where,
you know, every call incurs a cost, you
want to make sure that you're minimizing
any runaway errors or attempts that
Claude might make to pursue that. And
the most important thing here is memory.
At the start of each task, read the
relevant auto memory files to inform
your approach. Check the memory index.
It's making sure that Claude is running
that memory check before doing anything
so you have the best experience with it.
So, Claude is always up-to-date with how
you're working and what you're working
on. Plus I've given it a few scopes
scope instructions to make sure that it
doesn't go and delete files. Trying to
put as many guardrails around that as
possible. So if you want access to the
full claw.md, go to the link in the
description below. You'll find the full
setup instructions and this claw.md and
you can paste that directly into your
Claude project. So that's the complete
guide. Three Claude code features that
turn it into your open claw replacement.
Channels for Telegram access, loop
schedule tasks, and auto memory for
persistence across chats. Set them up on
its own machine and you'll have an AI
agent that you can text from anywhere
and that's always executing workloads
for you 24/7. Plus add that claw.md file
which is in the link in the description
below. So Claude always knows how to
talk to you on mobile. And if you're
looking for a skills marketplace where
you can access enterprise grade vetted
skills, there's a waitlist link in the
description below. Thanks for watching.